So the application is working but it's not really pretty,
this instance snapping here, nah, we can animate this,
so let's do that.
I actually will use a simple transition as we learned it,
so here I will add
transition, like this
and then for this transition, I want to set up a name and the name is flip because I want to flip this,
now I could also dynamically bind this to some property if I wanted to switch the transition and that
could be a nice challenge for you to do
but here I will hardcode it and I will set the mode to out in, so that the old component is first removed
before the new one is animated in.
Now of course since I add flip here, I need to add a couple of
css classes down there, specifically I need to have flip-enter but as a side note of course you
don't need to have it if you don't enter any code in there, I just want to show which classes we could
use,
flip-enter-active
and then of course we also have flip-leave, whoops, like that
and of course also flip-leave-active, like this.
These are the classes and since I want to flip it, I will need some keyframes to use a css animation
to do that,
so here I will have flip out from and then to let's say, of course you could be more granular by specifying
in-between steps
for example and I will also have keyframes flip-in like this
and here I also want to have simply from and to, now which animations do I want to set up here?
Well for flip-out, I want to transform and I want to rotateY, so rotate around the y axis which is
this animation so not x, y, rotateY
and initially, I want to rotate by 0 degrees because I will start at having it well, not rotate it
at all
instead having it really like this, not like this, not like this, really at zero degrees but I want to transform
to rotateY 90 degrees, so that it now is from this switch to this.
Now of course we want to do a full flip and the other half will be done in flip-in because that should
already be the new card,
the new component, if I would animate the old card to do a full flip, well and we would just see an empty
background, a white or a gray background and not the new card as a background,
therefore the second half of the flip has to be done on the new component.
Therefore here for flip in which will add new one,
we have to start at this point where the first one stops,
so at 90 degrees and we want to transform all the way down to 0 degrees again, so that the new
component which gets added in is now rotated fully towards you.
I hope that makes sense,
rotate the old one out until it is exactly at 90 degrees so almost invisible so to say
and then if we would leave it to continue to 180%, we would see the back side of it which
is just some default gray color,
therefore the back side should be the new component
which is why this takes over at 90 degrees. Well with that animation set up here,
let's see, what do we need to set here?
Well flip-enter, this should be transform
rotateY
at
zero degrees, though we shouldn't need that because that is the starting state here in from, therefore we
could remove the whole flip-enter class, I'm just leaving it here so that again, you see all the classes
you could use. Flip-enter-active here, this is
whilst the flip-in animation plays, well this shall use the flip-in animation over let's say half
a second, of course choose any time frame of your choice or of your preference,
I want to use the ease-out, ease-in function and forwards to stay in the final place and not snap back
to the initial from state.
Now for flip-leave, we also want to transform rotateY
0 degrees, shouldn't be needed too though
so let's comment this out too and flip-leave-active, well here I want to have my animation where I want
to play flip-out over half a second,
ease-out and forwards as well, just like for flip-enter-active, of course you could group them together
but I want to be explicit here.
Now with that set up, let's see this in the running application if I reload,
that should be -2, it almost works but we don't see the flip-out,
we only see it in flip-in
but what's happening to the other part of the animation? Well what's happening is that this should
be called flip-out here,
so let's reload it again and try this again,
now it looks how it should look like
and if I give the wrong answer like this one, I get a warning and the right one flips it.
So now with that, it's a small practice about animations,
now you could continue practicing by adding more animations here or for example, go back to the monster
slayer application
and on that, try to animate the list of the log we use there to log the player actions and so on,
that could be animated with transition group,
that would be a nice practice. In the next lecture,
you will see my updated monster slayer code where I added these animations to that application for the
group specifically
and then you can compare this because this really is what I want to encourage you to do.
Challenge my code and challenge yourself and use the things you learn here especially about animations
for example and practice it in existing applications, try to
animate certain things and play around with it. With that,
we achieved a lot,
we learned a lot of the basics in this animations
word or in the
vuejs world already,
now I want to move on to how we can leave the vuejs
app for a moment and reach out to some server if we need to fetch or store some data, something we
haven't had a look at yet.
So there, we will have a look at how we can use http in our vuejs application.